students doing partying and what were they
smoking and drinking? Well, a lot of the students
smoked and a lot of them drank and often we would
attend parties where there would be a lot of beer or
it seems to me I don't drink. I mean, I didn't drink
then. I seldom drink now and I don't like beer at
all. So, it seems to me that most of them drank beer.
I know my husband drank beer and had nearly had a
real serious accident out on that bridge, going
the wrong way on the bridge that didn't exist out
there over the river. And margaritas, I think,
they drank margaritas. And at some of the parties
we would have, we'd have cookouts sometimes. That
was the only time that we would entertain each
other and have food other than just desserts was
hamburgers and hot dogs because that was less
expensive.
You said smoking, but they were smoking what? Just
regular tobacco. Just regular tobacco. But a lot
of them did. But then I knew a lot of people that
didn't smoke and all. We had friends who lived in, I
don't even know whether they do this anymore, but
there were a lot of garage apartments around town.
You know, you have to find the, you know, okay,
there's the garage upstairs and there's the
apartment. And we had a lot of friends that lived in
those kind of situations because people had
realized that there weren't enough places for
young couples. Now, as a veterinary student wife,
you all didn't go to any of the big dances that year,
did you? Not that year, but I had gone to, I dated my
husband for two years before, and I was here for the
senior ring dance when he was a junior. Describe
going to the senior ring dance. Well, he was an
officer that year, and the dance was held, I
believe, in Sabisa Hall, and so it was a much, much
smaller group of people who were attending it. It
was very formal. What did you wear? I wore a long
dress. It was a silk,
not brocade, I believe it was a silk, well it was
silk anyway. And it was,
you know, he was dressed up in his uniform. And I
believe I even had a tiara on that year. I think if I
look at the picture, I might be able to see it. And
white gloves, you know, the girls with the white
gloves. And we would have a meal. We had our meal
first in the dining hall. And we had a program with a
tassel and very formal. and then they had the dance
right there in Sivisa. And the orchestra was
playing big band music? Pretty much so, but we're
beginning to do, not the Beatles yet, I mean
although that was the year that the Beatles were
becoming very popular, but rock and roll was also
very popular. was very popular, but it was a lot of
big band, but some rock and roll, you know. I know
that my husband had to disappear because he had to
do some kind of business for the class, for his
class, and so I was there for a while, for a few
minutes by myself. But it was interesting. I also
went to dances that they had at the football games
in Dallas and in Fort Worth. because very often the
outfits would have parties and you would, the
previous members of the outfit would also attend
those, so it was a kind of mixed crowd. And how were
you young ladies treated to those dances? Very, I
mean, I never had any problem with any time the way I
was. I've never had anything but, like most of the
guys you say, we treated them like queens. Right. I
mean, you know, we were honored guests. And the
only thing, I mean, there were occasionally,
there were some guys that drank too much. But
generally nothing else happened other than that.
And some guys trying to get home to places where
they weren't familiar with it. you know, five of
them were staying in one of their buddies' house in
Dallas or in Fort Worth and, you know, they might
have gotten lost or they might, I know there was one
time when a couple of them ended up sleeping
outside in the car because they, once they got
home, it was a good thing they got home, but they
couldn't get in, so. But we, but those were, those
were interesting parties and they were usually
very formal also. I mean, not that we necessarily
wore long dresses, but we did dress up for those,
for those parties and, And I don't remember ever
going to one in Houston, but I do remember going to
one in Dallas, and I believe one in Fort Worth. Now,
in the 60s, drugs were not even, the words weren't
even known, were they? No, we didn't know anything
about drugs, and the campus was very
conservative, so I don't think that even though
that was the beginning of the change, and I don't
think that anybody here would have even thought
about that. In the 60s, did you and your husband
even know about the business establishments that
supposedly existed over in LaGrange? I think we
probably had heard about that, but not... Do you
remember hearing Aggies ever talk about going
over there? I didn't hear anybody specifically
talk about that. I never did either. That's right.
Because now the legend is growing. Although
you're going to interview my friend and he can tell
you about that because I believe he went. Okay.
Let's see. We did racial integration and da, da,
da, da, da. And I presume there was no one that you
and other co-eds knew was a special person to y'all
to turn to for advice? No, and that was, and looking
back, I mean I don't know how many of the other
co-eds were like me who were transient and who were
going to be here only a year or two because they
married somebody who was already a student here
and we're going to leave but they had not made those
kind of arrangements for us. I assume that within a
couple of years that they did do that but they just
didn't and when I say they the administration was
in such a hurry I believe to go ahead and implement
what they decided that they needed to do it. And
even if there were things that got left out, that
that was better than not and putting it off.
Because once they did it, I mean, I guess it would be
possible to go backwards. But if they had said, OK,
we're going to do it in two years, and we're going to
make all these arrangements beforehand, I think
there could have been things And I think that, I
mean, you probably know this better than I would,
but I would guess that they wanted to do it as
quickly as possible so that it couldn't be undone.
Who were the other, as far as you know in that time,
who were the other people that really made a
difference on this campus? Well, we talked about
Pinky Downs, and he was the spirit raiser. And I
can't think of another specific person, but I know
that just as now, the yell leaders were very, very
important. To the boys that were in the Corps, all
their outfit leaders were important. I don't
remember talking to any other person that was
important to me or that I knew of as far as
administrators. I personally knew that, even
though I didn't know him, but that Earl Rudder had
made a difference in my life because I was able to
come here because of that. And I did know a few of the
people in the vet school at that time. All right,
any other things in your list? I think I've covered
just about everything else that I had talked about
because we've gone over the things that I thought
were so important. Silver taps and the muster were
very important, and I participated in those since
then. I think the Former Students Association
became
important to almost every Aggie also and because
you wanted to be a member of the former students
association what creates this aggie spirit aggie
pride originally
i think part of it was because you're different and
when you're different that forces you even if you
are have differences among yourself that forces
you to be one unit. And now I think a lot of it has to do
with the traditions and the history of A&M. Which
traditions do you think are the most important?
Well, I think muster and silver taps are very
important. I think that there are some things that
I think that we need to perhaps look at I think
everybody's looking at him now. If being in the
Corps is causing a student to not be able to succeed
academically, then I don't think that the Corps
should be, that they should do away with the Corps,
but the Corps needs to facilitate the academics,
because the students overwhelmingly are here for
an education. I mean, I don't have anything, I
think, like those two are the most important. I
think participating in football games is
important. And even as a graduate student and as a
much older graduate student, I went to football
games and I stood. And I always said that I wouldn't
stand in the rain, but I did, you know, if it was 85
degrees or 90 degrees, I did that. So all those kind
of things are very important, but I think the
things that make us different are muster and
silver towels. What did you learn at A&M that's
been important in your life? Did it have any effect
on you, the fact that you had some years here? I
think that being perhaps being part of an
institution that is different made me cherish the
differences and respect those differences in
every way, in every person. And I think that that's
one of the things. And it made me proud to be an
Aggie, and I always wanted to be considered an
Aggie. Even though at this point I don't have a
degree from A&M, I always consider myself an
Aggie.
Should female Aggies have a different title? No. I
think that even to consider it, I realize that In 64
they really didn't know what to do, but there's no
difference and we're Aggies. If you were a
consultant to A&M today, what advice would you
give them regarding the path to future even
greater success? I think we have to respect
everybody's differences. Although we are proud
of our traditions and our history, and we don't
want this not to be Texas A&M. I think that we have to
realize that this is not the same school it was in
1964 or in 1930 and that we have graduate students
and that our emphasis in some ways has broadened,
not necessarily changed, but we have broadened
ourselves and that we have to emphasize that
diversity makes us stronger. Do you have any, my
question, if you could make a major gift to A&M, for
what purpose would you want that gift used? Do you
have any special interest areas of A&M? I think
that I realized that at one time the library was
very lacking. I must admit that at this point I
think that Dean Heath's done a marvelous job over
the 10 years or however long he's been here,
because I know what it was like before he came. And
I've always encouraged people to make donations
to the library. The other thing that I, the other
area that I think is important is, not necessarily
because we're going down this road to a school of
art, but I think that it's important to know that we
do have some fine pieces of art on the campus and to
promote that. Are there any people connected to
this institution to whom you feel particularly
grateful? Well, I've already said that I think
that Earl Rudder changed my life and because I
would have lived a different life if it hadn't been
for him. Other than that, I'm not sure. I've been
mentored recently by some of the administrators.
I've had some wonderful relationships. Dean
Stout is a friend. has always had time to listen to
me. So there are some other administrators that I
think that I stopped and spoke with Bill Perry last
week. Good God. And I made a suggestion, and he
said, well, why don't you take care of it? I think
that one of the things that needs to be done is that
the iconography of some of the buildings needs to
be researched. And he said, why don't you talk to
Dr. Woodcock about that? And unfortunately, his
project is not going to do that. But we have some
beautiful buildings with some very unusual
artwork and I think that it needs to be explained
and we need to know why we have these things. Last
things then. What feelings do you hold in your
heart for A&M? I wanted to come back here. I chose to
come back to A&M in 1995. And I think that it's a
wonderful place to live and I'd be happy to stay
here even after I graduate. So I think A&M is a
special place. I recognize that it's not perfect,
but there's not any place that's perfect and I do
like A&M and College Station. And you have to see
its strengths and realize, you know, fight to
change what needs to be changed.